
.. _akmc:

================================
Adaptive kinetic Monte Carlo
================================

The adaptive kinetic Monte Carlo (aKMC) method is a method to course grain
molecular dynamics for rare event systems.  A rare event system is one in which
the interesting dynamics is governed by short transitions between stable
states.  The fast vibrational motion within a stable state is considered to be
in equilibrium and described statisitcally.  A transition between states is
assumed to be first order, since it is a rare events, and the rate of the
transition is calculated from the harmonic approximation to transition state
theory (hTST).

The hTST approximation of a transition rate is calculated from the energy
difference between the saddle point along the minimum energy path for the
transition and the initial minimum.  The vibrational modes at these points are
also used to calculate the prefactor.  An hTST rate is of the standard
Arrhenius form :math:`R = v \exp (-\Delta E/kT)` where :math:`v` is the product
of all positive modes at the minimum divided by those at the saddle,
:math:`\Delta E` is the energy barrier, and :math:`kT` is the thermal enregy.

In order to propogate the dynamics within aKMC, a list of all possible rates
leading away from the current stable state to any other state is required.
Formally, there are an enourmously large number of such transitions (also
called processes) available in a typical atomic system, but in fact only the
transitions with the fastest rates with the highest probability of happening
are required.  The search for processes is then limited to those with rates on
the same order as the fastest processes found.

The search for possible processes is the primary task of the aKMC simulations.
Each client does a minimum mode (minmode) following search from the miminum of
the current state and tries to find a saddle point which connects from the
minimum in the current state to an adjacent state.  A saddle point is connected
to a state if a minimization initiated along the negative mode at the saddle
converges to the minimum of that state.

Each client is tasked with one or more such searches.  It climbs from the
minimum to a saddle, and if successful, it minimizes on either side of the
saddle to determine the connecting states.  The prefactor for the transition is
also calculated by finite difference and the hTST rate is calculated.  These
data are reported back to the server.

The server is reponsible for the time evolution of the system by the KMC
algorithm.  Each process leading to a new state is tabulated in a rate table
and one transition is selected stochastically with a probability proportional
to its rate.  The transition time is drawn from a first-order distribution for
the total rate of escape from the state.

The following describes options for running an aKMC simulation, including both
KMC options on the server-side and minmode following saddle point searching
options on the client-side.  Each option is specified in the config.ini file
under the section name given.  Default values for each option is given along
with a brief description.

.. include:: config_akmc.txt

.. include:: config_process_search.txt

.. include:: config_saddle_search.txt

.. include:: config_dimer.txt

.. include:: config_lanczos.txt

.. include:: config_hessian.txt

.. include:: config_neb.txt

.. include:: config_debug.txt
