
.. _dynamics:

========
Dynamics
========

**time_step**: The length of each MD step in femtoseconds.

   default: ``1``


**auto_stop**: Whether or not stop the job when a new state is found. For boinc
communicator this value should be set to false.

   default: ``False``

**steps**: The number of MD steps to run.

   default: ``1000``

**dephase_steps**: Number of steps used to decorrelate the replica
trajectories. The momenta will be inversed when reaching the dividing surface
to prevent transitions occurring during this period.

   default: ``200``

**check_period**: How frequently the state of system is checked. Every
check_period steps, the current structure and the initial one will be compared
to tell whether a newstate has been reached. Also note when you set refine as
true, the code will keep a buffer array consisting of
check_period/record_resolution+1 atomic configurations, which may increase the
usage of memory.

   default: ``500``

**refine_transition_time**: Whether or not the transition time is refined. When
this option is turned on, the code will keep an array consisted by
check_period/record_resolution+1 atomic configurations. A Binary search
algorithm is employed to determine the transition step. Otherwise the
transition step would be the first in which a new state was found. This
function reduces the need for a smaller check_period. And the accuracy of
transition time is record_resolution*timestep.

   default: ``True``


**record_resolution**: How often the system is recorded to the buffer array
when the refine_transition_time option is activated. Increasing the value of
record_resolution lowers the accuracy of the transition time estimate but also
reduces memory usage and speeds up refinement of the transition step.

   default: ``1``

**post_transition_steps**: Number of MD steps which will be performed after a
new state has been found. A state check will be employed after these
post_transition_steps to confirm that the state is stable. This additional
check helps avoid meta-stable states. A value similar to dephase_steps is
recommended.

   default: ``500``


**thermo_type**

   default: ``andersen``

   options:

       ``andersen``: Andersen thermostat with Verlet algorithm

       ``nose_hoober``: Nose-Hover thermostat with Verlet algorithm

       ``langevin``: Langevin thermostat with Verlet algorithm

**andersen_alpha**: The collision strength in the Andersen thermostat

   default: ``0.2``

**andersen_collision_steps**: The collision period (in MD steps) for the
Andersen thermostat.

   default: ``10``


**nose_mass**: The effective mass of the additional degree of freedom in the
Nose-Hover thermostat, which determines the rate of heat transfer.

   default: ``1``


**langevin_friction**: The damping coefficient for langevin dynamics.

   default: ``0.01``
